README.md, before:

# sawtooth-rest-api-proxy

> Reverse proxy for Sawtooth REST API using Express

## Getting started

```bash
git clone git@github.com:thegreatsunra/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy.git

cd sawtooth-rest-api-proxy

npm install
```

## Install an SSL certificate via certbot

1) If you haven't configured a hostname for your server yet (e.g. `my-awesome-server.my-domain.tld` points to your server) do so now. Something like this might work:

```bash
lsattr /etc/hostname && sudo chattr -i /etc/hostname
sudo sh -c "echo '__YOUR_SERVER_HOSTNAME__' > /etc/hostname"
sudo hostname -F /etc/hostname
sudo chattr +i /etc/hostname
```

2) Log into your DNS service (e.g. Cloudflare) and add your server's hostname and IP address as an "A" record for your domain

3) Make sure port 80 is open on your server (e.g. it isn't being blocked by ufw or another firewall utility)

4) Run the following command. It will generate unique username and password values for basic-auth, save them to a `.env` file, and then start a lightweight static site on your server at port 80

```bash
cd sawtooth-rest-api-proxy

# Many VM providers (e.g. Digital Ocean) require root privileges to run a service on port 80
sudo node init.js
```

5) **Keep that script running.** Now, open a _second_ SSH session on your server and install certbot:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:certbot/certbot && apt update -yq && apt install -yq certbot
```

6) Issue an SSL certificate for your server, using the init script's Express server to complete certbot's round-trip verification:

```
cd ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy && sudo certbot certonly --agree-tos --noninteractive --email __YOUR_EMAIL@DOMAIN.TLD__ --webroot -w ./public -d __YOUR_SERVER_HOSTNAME__
```

7) If the above command was successful, switch back to your _first_ SSH session and stop the `init.js` script via CTRL+C

8) Make note of the basic-auth username and password generated for your proxy. 

9) Run the following commands to put your SSL certificate and key in a place where your proxy app has permission to run it (TODO: Make this smarter and better and more secure)

```bash
## Copy your SSL key and certificate into your rest api project folder
sudo cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/__YOUR_SERVER_HOSTNAME__/fullchain.pem ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/fullchain.pem  && sudo cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/__YOUR_SERVER_HOSTNAME__/privkey.pem ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/privkey.pem

## Change ownership for key files to sawtooth user, and change permissions
## This assumes you have a user on your server named sawtooth, and that user is responsible for running things
sudo chown sawtooth:sawtooth ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/privkey.pem ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/fullchain.pem && chmod 755 ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/privkey.pem ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/fullchain.pem
```

10) Open the `.env` file and change the value for `USE_HTTPS` to `true`. Now, whenever you start the proxy, it will look for your SSL certificates and start a secure server at port `8888`.

11) While you're in the `.env` file, change the value for `USE_BASIC_AUTH` to `true`. That way, anyone making a request to your proxy will need to provide the username and password in order to successfully connect.

11) TODO: Set up a cron job to run certbot and renew certificates every 90 days

12) TODO: Set up a cron job to copy renewed certificate and key files to the proxy app folder

## Usage

```bash
cd sawtooth-rest-api-proxy

node index.js
```

By default, the proxy listens for requests at port `8888` on the current server and forwards them to `localhost:8008`.

Responses from the Sawtooth REST API are given generous `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` headers by the proxy, and then sent along to the requesting client.

### Use pm2 to start proxy as a long-running process

```bash
npm install -g pm2

cd sawtooth-rest-api-proxy

pm2 start index.js
```

Commit message:

Document all values configurable in .env

README.md, after:

# sawtooth-rest-api-proxy

> Reverse proxy for Sawtooth REST API using Express

## Getting started

```bash
git clone git@github.com:thegreatsunra/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy.git

cd sawtooth-rest-api-proxy

npm install
```

## Install an SSL certificate via certbot

1) If you haven't configured a hostname for your server yet (e.g. `my-awesome-server.my-domain.tld` points to your server) do so now. Something like this might work:

```bash
lsattr /etc/hostname && sudo chattr -i /etc/hostname
sudo sh -c "echo '__YOUR_SERVER_HOSTNAME__' > /etc/hostname"
sudo hostname -F /etc/hostname
sudo chattr +i /etc/hostname
```

2) Log into your DNS service (e.g. Cloudflare) and add your server's hostname and IP address as an "A" record for your domain

3) Make sure port 80 is open on your server (e.g. it isn't being blocked by ufw or another firewall utility)

4) Run the following command. It will generate unique username and password values for basic-auth, save them to a `.env` file, and then start a lightweight static site on your server at port 80

```bash
cd sawtooth-rest-api-proxy

# Many VM providers (e.g. Digital Ocean) require root privileges to run a service on port 80
sudo node init.js
```

5) **Keep that script running.** Now, open a _second_ SSH session on your server and install certbot:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:certbot/certbot && apt update -yq && apt install -yq certbot
```

6) Issue an SSL certificate for your server, using the init script's Express server to complete certbot's round-trip verification:

```
cd ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy && sudo certbot certonly --agree-tos --noninteractive --email __YOUR_EMAIL@DOMAIN.TLD__ --webroot -w ./public -d __YOUR_SERVER_HOSTNAME__
```

7) If the above command was successful, switch back to your _first_ SSH session and stop the `init.js` script via CTRL+C

8) Make note of the basic-auth username and password generated for your proxy. 

9) Run the following commands to put your SSL certificate and key in a place where your proxy app has permission to run it (TODO: Make this smarter and better and more secure)

```bash
## Copy your SSL key and certificate into your rest api project folder
sudo cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/__YOUR_SERVER_HOSTNAME__/fullchain.pem ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/fullchain.pem  && sudo cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/__YOUR_SERVER_HOSTNAME__/privkey.pem ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/privkey.pem

## Change ownership for key files to sawtooth user, and change permissions
## This assumes you have a user on your server named sawtooth, and that user is responsible for running things
sudo chown sawtooth:sawtooth ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/privkey.pem ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/fullchain.pem && chmod 755 ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/privkey.pem ~/sawtooth-rest-api-proxy/sslcert/fullchain.pem
```

10) Open the `.env` file and change the value for `USE_HTTPS` to `true`. Now, whenever you start the proxy, it will look for your SSL certificates and start a secure server at port `8888`.

11) While you're in the `.env` file, change the value for `USE_BASIC_AUTH` to `true`. That way, anyone making a request to your proxy will need to provide the username and password in order to successfully connect.

11) TODO: Set up a cron job to run certbot and renew certificates every 90 days

12) TODO: Set up a cron job to copy renewed certificate and key files to the proxy app folder

## Usage

```bash
cd sawtooth-rest-api-proxy

node index.js
```

By default, the proxy listens for requests at port `8888` on the current server and forwards them to `localhost:8008`.

Responses from the Sawtooth REST API are given generous `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` headers by the proxy, and then sent along to the requesting client.

## Configuration

The following variables are configurable by editing them in (or adding them to) the `.env` file:

```bash
USERNAME ### [string] - the basic-auth username required to connect to the proxy server [default_value: generated by init.js]
PASSWORD ### [string] - the basic-auth password required to connect to the proxy server [default_value: generated by init.js]
USE_BASIC_AUTH ### [boolean] - whether to secure the server using basic-auth [default_value: false]
USE_HTTPS ### [boolean] - whether to secure the server using SSL/HTTPS (requires a certificate and key) [default_value: false]
PROXY_INIT_PORT ### [port] - initialization port that certbot will check to validate server [default_value: 80]
PROXY_INTERNAL_PORT ### [port] - internal port that Express will use if using SSL/HTTPS to secure the public port [default_value: 8887]
PROXY_PUBLIC_PORT ### [port] - public port where the proxy server will be exposed [default_value: 8888]
PROXY_SSL_CERT_PATH ### [path] - relative path to the SSL certificate [default_value: ./sslcert/fullchain.pem]
PROXY_SSL_KEY_PATH ### [path] - relative path to the SSL private key [default_value: ./sslcert/privkey.pem]
SAWTOOTH_REST_API_HOST ### [hostname] - name or IP address of the server that's hosting the Sawtooth REST API [default_value: localhost]
SAWTOOTH_REST_API_PORT ### [port] - server port where the Sawtooth REST API is exposed [default_value: localhost]
```

### Use pm2 to start proxy as a long-running process

```bash
npm install -g pm2

cd sawtooth-rest-api-proxy

pm2 start index.js
```
